>> Anjana Vakil: Now let's come
back to that,
>> Anjana Vakil: Question of
immutable data.
>> Anjana Vakil: As I mentioned,
arrays in JavaScript are mutable, right?
We know that we can mess with
the contents of an array, and
that's not great if we want the
guarantees, and the confidence that comes
with knowing that once I have created
some data, nobody else can mess with it.
And so there are solutions for
doing that in JavaScript libraries that
provide these type of data structures.
And there's a bunch of different choices.
There are more links in
the end of the course, but
one really popular one is called immer,
which Immer in German means always.
And so this gets into the persistence,
which is another word you hear used a lot
with these immutable data structures,
persistent data structures,
they never change.
Once you have created it,
it's like a const declaration.
It's like assigning const to a string.
Once that has been declared,
no one else shall change it.
So Immer is one choice.
There's a bunch of others.
I'll let you read through the docs and
everything on your own.
But how does this work?
Okay, so a cool thing about Immer is that
you don't have to do all these mental
gymnastics of like spreading the slice and
the mapping the thing and whatever.
You can actually still
just use array.push.
But Anjana, didn't you just say
that push is a mutating method and
therefore is super dangerous?
Yes, if I was calling it in
a regular JavaScript land, but
here I'm calling it inside
of a callback function,
first class function.
There is a produce function
exported by Immer.
>> Anjana Vakil: That
works kind of similar to
a lot of our functional utilities.
What it does is it takes in an array and
a function that describes but does not yet
do whatever the transformations are that
you would like to make to this array.
By convention,
the input is sometimes called draft, or
usually it's called draft.
It's like a draft of what
you're gonna return, and
it starts out being
identical to the input.
And then you can mess with it inside
this function body, but under the hood,
MR is managing the immutability for
you using some fancy data structures and
what not, and you can read how it all
works on their documentation site.
There's a whole blog about it,
it's pretty cool.
That allows us to write code as
if we're mutating stuff, but
because it is isolated, that mutation,
what we think is a mutation,
under the hood is maybe not a mutation,
is isolated in this function.
That then gets applied to the older array
to produce a new array, for example.
So, real quick, let's rewrite
these in an Immerized way [LAUGH].
So, instead of, in push, instead of,
returning the stuff we just had.
Well, we have this example
already right here, basically.
[LAUGH] So we can,
>> Anjana Vakil: Turn, yeah.
Well, we don't wanna push always four,
we wanna push the element to
the draft inside of the callback.
Now, I'm just gonna walk
us through this just as
an example of how one implementation
here of persistent data structures and
of immutable data in
JavaScript lets us do this.
But you get the idea, it's gonna be pretty
similar for the rest of these, right?
So if I have return, oops,
I'm supposed to be returning this and
I am going to be returning
here we are updating so
instead of push I want to do an assignmen,
right?
So draft index =new value.
All the same stuff that we're
used to doing in JavaScript
magically gets immutablised
under the hood.
Now for pop, we just need to
think a little bit more carefully
about how we would like
the equivalent to pop in yeah.
Here, we're not really doing,
like, myArray.pop.
We want to return, again, the array
with everything except the popped thing,
if that makes sense.
So we could do something like.
>> Student: In both cases,
you want array instead of oldArray.
>> Anjana Vakil: Oops, thank you.
Okay, so instead of assigning here,
we are going to maybe just pop it.
And then we can return draft.
But actually,
Immer is returning draft for us.
So that's why we didn't need to have
returns statements and the other things.
Immer is taking that draft and
returning it for us.
All right, so we now have, yeah,
and you can look through the test,
but it's just it's just
a demonstration of this API.
This is just one way of doing it, but
a lot of people really like Immer.
There's some other solutions that have
totally different APIs, like for example,
immutable JS is a library that the artists
formerly known as Facebook put out
that, Does the same underlying thing,
but the way that you would work
with it is a lot more different and
you have to remember to always make
your arrays, special immutable arrays.
>> Anjana Vakil: Immer is cool and a lot
of people like it because it lets you just
pretend everything is a regular JavaScript
array, and it just does the magic for
you of making sure nothing gets mutated.
All right, so this is all to say if
you wanna work with immutable data,
which you probably will if you end up
doing a lot of functional programming and
seeing how slow it is to copy everything
all the time and avoid mutation that way.
There are solutions in
the JavaScript ecosystem for that.